EIP-3475 last call addition with changes in standard (#5166)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-3475.md

```

**Metadata**:
The metadata of a bond class or nonce is stored as an array of JSON objects, represented by the following types. 

**NOTE: all of the metadata schemas are referenced from [here](../assets/eip-3475/Metadata.md)**

### 1. Description:
This defines the additional information about the nature of data being stored in the nonce/class metadata structures. They are defined using the structured explained [here](../assets/eip-3475/Metadata.md#1-description-metadata). this will then be used by the frontend of the respective entities participating in the bond markets to interpret the data which is compliant with their jurisdiction. 

### 2. Nonce:

The key value for indexing the information is the 'class'' field. Following are the rules:

- The title can be any alpha numeric type that is differentiated by the description of metadata (although it can be dependent on certain jurisdictions).
- The title SHOULD not be EMPTY.

Some specific examples of metadata can be the localization of bonds, jurisdiction details etc., and they can be found in the metadata description.

### 3. Class metadata:

> This structure defines the details of the class information (symbol, risk information, etc.). the example is explained [here](../assets/eip-3475/Metadata.md#3-class-information). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This structure defines the details of the class information (symbol, risk information, etc.). the example is explained [here](../assets/eip-3475/Metadata.md) in the class metadata section.
```

```solidity
 struct Values{
 string stringValue;
 uint uintValue;
 address addressValue;
 bool boolValue;
 }
```

```solidity
 struct Metadata {
 string title;
 string _type;
 string description;
 }
```

**Batch function:**

 This EIP supports batch operations such as a batch transactions. It allows the user to transfer different bonds along with their metadata to a new address instantaneously in a single txn. And after execution, the new owner holds the right to reclaim the face value of each of the bonds. This mechanism helps in the "packaging" of bonds which is helpful in use cases like trades on a secondary market.

```solidity
 struct Transaction {
 uint256 classId;
 uint256 nonceId;
 uint256 _amount;
 }
```

Where: 

> The "classId" is the class id of the bond.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `classId` is the class id of the bond.
```

The "nonceId" is the nonce id of the given bond class. This param is for distinctions of the issuing conditions of the bond.

> The "_amount" is the amount of the bond for which the spender is approved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `_amount` is the amount of the bond for which the spender is approved.
```

Reviewer 2: > Few nits, then I think it's ready

ok thanks, i have incorporated them.

---
eip: 3475
title: Abstract Storage Bond Standard

> description: An interface standard that allows creation of bonds for all kind of ERC based token assets, while being efficient, having more onchain redemption logic and truly decentralized for issuance and redemption.

Reviewer 2: @MicahZoltu @lightclient @SamWilsn  
Fixed all suggested issues.

To ensure the reading of transactions, "Issue", "Redeem", "Burn" and "Transfer", Events cited above MUST be emitted when such transaction is passed.

**Note that the this standard interface is also compatible with ERC-20 and [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) interface.**

However, creating a separate bank contract is recommended for reading the bonds and future upgrade needs.

Acceptable collateral can be in the form of [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens, [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) tokens, or other bonds represented by the standard.Thus bonds can now represent a collection of collaterals (of the same type) of all fungible/non-fungible or semi-fungible tokens.

## Reference Implementation

[Reference Interface](../assets/eip-3475/IERC3475.sol).
  - This demonstration shows only minimalist implementation.

[Debond-ERC3475](../assets/eip-3475/Debond-ERC3475.sol) 
  - Real use case consisting of more sophisticated logic like:
    - Different classes of bonds (fixed/floating rate bonds).
    - Redemption conditions.

## Security Considerations
There are no known security considerations for this EIP.

> ## Copyright Waiver

Reviewer 3: You can check out https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ethereum/EIPs/master/eip-template.md for what the EIP layout must look like.  It needs to match that structure exactly, though you can have more sub-sections within those top level sections if you want.

---
eip: 3475
title: Multiple Callable Bonds Standard
description: An interface for contracts that manage multiple bonds, allowing multiple LP token contracts to store more information.
author: Yu LIU (@yuliu-debond), Waroon D. (@dr-chain), Cedric Ngakam (@drikssy), Dhruv Malik (@GrandGarcon), Samuel Gwlanold (@Edoumou), Toufic Batrice (@toufic0710)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-3475-multiple-callable-bonds-standard/8691
status: Last Call

> last-call-deadline: 2022-07-30.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
last-call-deadline: 2022-07-30
```

Author: done. sorry last time i had resolved that but some changes but they came again.

type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2021-04-05
---

## Abstract

> This API standard allows for the creation of any number of bond types in a single contract. Existing LP token standards like [EIP-20](./eip-20.md)require the deployment of separate factories of token contracts per token type. Issuing bonds with multiple redemption data cannot be achieved with existing token standards. This proposal allows each bond class ID to represent a new configurable token type and corresponding to each class, corresponding bond nonces to represent an issuing date or any other form of data in uint256. Every single nonce of a bond class can have its own metadata, supply, and other redemption conditions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This API standard allows for the creation of any number of bond types in a single contract. Existing LP token standards like [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) require the deployment of separate factories of token contracts per token type. Issuing bonds with multiple redemption data cannot be achieved with existing token standards. This proposal allows each bond class ID to represent a new configurable token type and corresponding to each class, corresponding bond nonces to represent an issuing date or any other form of data in uint256. Every single nonce of a bond class can have its own metadata, supply, and other redemption conditions.
```

The functions defined in this EIP provide a gas-efficient solution for creating, trading, and burning bonds. The trading and burning of ERC-3475 Bonds will also increase the token market cap, helping it recover from the recession period. Existing structures, such as AMM exchanges or lending platforms, can be updated to recognize bonds created by this standard.

These bonds can also be batch called for issuance and, in turn, be divided and exchanged in a secondary market. The defined functions in this standard do operations on the serialized array, rather than storing them in struct mappings, giving significant benefits in storage and query gas costs. Trading and burning of these bonds will maintain market stability and adoption by:

-Providing more composability for building on other DeFi derivative products.
-Maintaining the token market cap based on the variation of market forces, helping it recover from the recession period. Existing structures, such as AMM exchanges or lending platforms, can be updated to recognize ERC-3475 Bonds.

> ## Specification

Author: ok . you mean something like this : 

```solidity
/**
* Definitions: 
* bank:  an entity that issues, redeems, or burns bonds after getting the necessary amount of liquidity. Generally, a single entity with access to the pool. 

function transferFrom(address _from, address _to, Transaction[] calldata _transaction) external returns(bool); 

.......

```

> **definitions**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Definitions**
```

The `"_transaction"` is the "`Transaction[] calldata"` structure defined in the rationale.

@dev transferFrom MUST have the `isApprovedFor(_from, _to, _transaction[i].classId)` approval to transfer `_from` address to `_to` address for given classId (for all transaction in the array structure).

e.g.

``` solidity
function transferFrom(0x2d03B6C79B75eE7aB35298878D05fe36DC1fE8Ef, 0x82a55a613429Aeb3D01fbE6841bE1AcA4fFD5b2B, [[1, 42, 500000000]]);
```

transfer from `_from` address, to `_to` address, `500000000` bonds of type class`1` and nonce `42`.

**transferAllowanceFrom** 

`function transferAllowanceFrom(address _from,address _to, Transaction[] calldata _transactions) public virtual override`

allows the transfer of only those bonds types and nonces which are being alloted to the _to address using allowance() function.

The `"_from"` argument is the address of the holder whose balance about to decrease.

The `"_to"` argument is the address of the recipient whose balance is about to increase.

The `"_transaction"` is the "`Transaction[] calldata"` structure defined in the section `rationales` below.

> @dev transferAllowanceFrom MUST have the `allowance(_from, msg.sender, _transactions[i].classId, _transactions[i].nonceId)` implemented inside (where `i` looping for all the transaction index) 

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure what the goal of this line is with the `@dev`, but I think it doesn't make sense in plaintext here.

Authorizes to set the allowance and also to return the same for given class classId and nonceId Iff the address ("_operator") is approved to manage account's Bonds class.

The"_owner" The owner of the tokens

The"_operator" Address of the authorized operator

The "classId" is the class id of the bond.

Returns the "_amount" which spender is still allowed to withdraw from "_owner".

```Solidity
function allowance(address _owner, address _spender, uint256 classId, uint256 nonceId) external view returns (uint256);
```
**isApprovedFor**

`function isApprovedFor(address _owner, address _operator, uint256 classId)` returns if address ("_operator") is approved for managing account's bonds class.

The`"_owner"` The owner of the tokens

The`"_operator"` address of the authorized operator

The `"classId"` is the class id of the bond.

Returns `"true"` if the operator is approved, `"false"` if not

```Solidity
function isApprovedFor(address owner, address operator, uint256 classId) external view returns (bool);
```

### Metadata: 
The metadata of a bond class or nonce is stored as an array of JSON objects, represented by following types. 

> **NOTE: all of the metadata schemas are referenced from [here](https://github.com/Debond-Protocol/EIP-3475/blob/update-eip_EIP-refactor/EIPS/metadata.md#metadata--standards)**

Reviewer 4: Please use relative links, not absolute.

### 1. Description :

> This defines the additional information about the nature of data being stored in the nonce/class metadata structures. They are defined using the structured explained [here](https://github.com/Debond-Protocol/EIP-3475/blob/update-eip_EIP-refactor/EIPS/metadata.md#1-description-metadata). this will then be used by the frontend of the respective entities participating in the bond markets to interpret the data which is compliant to their jurisdiction. 

Reviewer 4: Please use relative links.

eip: 3475

> title: Multiple Callable Bonds Standard
> description: A standard interface for contract that manage multiple bonds. This standard will allow multiple LP token contract to store more information

Reviewer 5: We discourage "standard" in titles and descriptions:

```suggestion
title: Multiple Callable Bonds
description: An interface for contracts that manage multiple bonds, allowing multiple LP token contracts to store more information.
```

author: Yu LIU (@yuliu-debond), Waroon D. (@dr-chain), Cedric Ngakam (@drikssy), Dhruv Malik (@GrandGarcon), Samuel Gwlanold Edoumou (@Edoumou), Toufic Batrice (@toufic0710)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-3475-multiple-callable-bonds-standard/8691
status: Last Call

> last-call-deadline: 2022-06-30

Reviewer 5: Unfortunately this'll need to be bumped out a bit further, since I predict a couple more rounds of editing... Maybe:

```suggestion
last-call-deadline: 2022-07-08
```

Author: true , in fact we will be having an PeePAnEIP session on 19th July , so idk whether should we finish the deliberation before this session or afterwards.

type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2021-04-05
---

## Abstract

> This API standard allows for the creation of any number of bonds type in a single contract. Existing LP token standards like [ERC-20](./eip-20.md) require deployment of separate factory and token contracts per token type. The need of issuing bonds with multiple redemption data can’t be achieved with existing token standards. ERC-3475 Multiple Callable Bonds Standard allows for each bond class ID to represent a new configurable token type, and for each bond nonce to represent an issuing date or any other forms of data in uint256. Every single nonce of a bond class may have its own metadata, supply and other redemption conditions.

Reviewer 5: Some grammar changes, EIPs need to be referenced with `EIP-*`, not `ERC-*`:

```suggestion
This API standard allows for the creation of any number of bond types in a single contract. Existing LP token standards like [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) require deployment of separate factory and token contracts per token type. Issuing bonds with multiple redemption data cannot be achieved with existing token standards. This proposal allows for each bond class ID to represent a new configurable token type, and for each bond nonce to represent an issuing date or any other forms of data in uint256. Every single nonce of a bond class may have its own metadata, supply, and other redemption conditions.
```

> Current LP token is a simple ERC-20 token, which has not much complicity in data structure. To allow more complex reward and redemption logic to be built, we need a new LP token standard that can manage multiple bonds, stores much more data and gas efficient. ERC-3475 standard interface allows any tokens on solidity compatible block chains to create its own bond. These bonds with the same interface standard can be exchanged in secondary market. And it allows any 3rd party wallet applications or exchanges to read the balance and the redemption conditions of these tokens. ERC-3475 bonds can also be packed into separate packages. Those packages can in their turn be divided and exchanged in a secondary market.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Current LP tokens are simple ERC-20 tokens, which do not have a complex data structure. To allow more complex reward and redemption logic to be built, we need a new LP token standard that can manage multiple bonds, stores much more data, and is more gas efficient. This proposal allows any token on a Solidity compatible block chain to create its own bond. These bonds with the same interface standard can be exchanged in secondary markets. It allows any 3rd party wallet applications or exchanges to read the balance and the redemption conditions of these tokens. ERC-3475 bonds can also be packed into separate packages. Those packages can in their turn be divided and exchanged in a secondary market.
```

> The functions defined in this EIP provide a gas-efficient solution for creating, trading, and burning bonds. Trading and burning of ERC-3475 Bonds will also multiply tokens market cap, helping it to recover from recession period. Existing structures, such as AMM exchanges or lending platform can be updated to recognize ERC-3475 Bonds.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The functions defined in this EIP provide a gas-efficient solution for creating, trading, and burning bonds. Trading and burning of ERC-3475 Bonds will also multiply a token's market cap, helping it to recover from recession period. Existing structures, such as AMM exchanges or lending platforms can be updated to recognize ERC-3475 Bonds.
```

> These bonds can also be batch called for issuance and, in turn, be divided and exchanged in a secondary market.The defined function in this  standard do operations on the serialized array  reads/writes  on the array in the contract, rather than storing  in struct mappings, giving significant benefits in storage and query gas costs.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
These bonds can also be batch called for issuance and, in turn, be divided and exchanged in a secondary market. The defined functions in this  standard do operations on the serialized array, rather than storing in struct mappings, giving significant benefits in storage and query gas costs.
```

> Trading and burning of these  Bonds will maintain the market   stability and adoption   by 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Trading and burning of these bonds will maintain the market stability and adoption by: 
```

> - providing more composablity for buiding on  other defi derivative products .

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- providing more composablity for building on other DeFi derivative products.
```

> New functions built in ERC-3475 Multiple Callable Bonds Standard, will allow the users to economize their gas fee spend. Trading and burning of ERC-3475 Bonds will also multiply tokens market cap, helping it to recover from recession period. Existing structures, such as AMM exchanges or lending platform can be updated to recognize ERC-3475 Bonds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The functions defined in this EIP provide a gas-efficient solution for creating, trading, and burning bonds. Existing projects can be updated to recognize this new standard.
```

> ERC-3475 bonds can also be batched calls for issuance and in turn be divided and exchanged in a secondary market.The defined function in this  standard do operations on the serialized array  reads/writes  on the array in the contract , rather than storing  in struct mappings ,giving significant benefits in storage and query gas costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These bonds can also be batch called for issuance and, in turn, be divided and exchanged in a secondary market. The defined function in this standard do operations on the serialized array reads and writes on the array in the contract, rather than storing in struct mappings, providing significant benefits in storage and query gas costs.
```

> 
> Trading and burning of ERC-3475 Bonds will also better maintain the tokenomics of the market and providing more composablity for buiding other defi derivatives market and also maintaining the token market cap based on the market forces, helping it to recover from recession period. Existing structures, such as AMM exchanges or lending platform can be updated to recognize ERC-3475 Bonds.
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Specification
**definitions**
- Bank : is the enitity that issues , redeems or burns the bonds  after getting the necessary amount of liquidity. generally its an single entity having access to the pool.

**TransferFrom**

`transferFrom(address _from, address _to, TRANSACTION[] calldata  _transaction)` allows the transfer of any number of bond types from an address to another.

> The`"_from"` argument is the address of the holder whose balance about to decrees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The`_from` argument is the address of the holder whose balance is about to decrease.
```

> The `"_to"` argument is the address of the recipient whose balance is about to increased.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `_to` argument is the address of the recipient whose balance is about to increase.
```

The `" _transaction"` is the "`TRANSACTION[] calldata"`  structure defined in the rationales.

> @dev transferFrom MUST have the approvalFrom check  to transfer _from address to _to address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@dev transferFrom MUST have the approvalFrom check to transfer _from address to _to address.
```

e.g.

```
transferFrom(0x2d03B6C79B75eE7aB35298878D05fe36DC1fE8Ef, 0x82a55a613429Aeb3D01fbE6841bE1AcA4fFD5b2B, [{ 1, 42, 500000000}]);
```

This example shows the transfer from `_from` address, to `_to` address , with `500000000` bonds  of  type class`1` and  nonce `42`

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This example shows the transfer from `_from` address, to `_to` address , with `500000000` bonds  of  type class`1` and  nonce `42`
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transfers `500000000` bonds of type `1` from `0x2d03B6C79B75eE7aB35298878D05fe36DC1fE8Ef` to `0x82a55a613429Aeb3D01fbE6841bE1AcA4fFD5b2B`, with a nonce of `42`
```

**Issue**

`issue(address _to, TRANSACTION[] calldata _transaction)` allows issuing any number of bond types to an address.

The calling of this function needs to be restricted to bond issuer contract.

> The `"_to"` argument is the address to which the bond will be issued.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `_to` argument is the address to which the bond will be issued.
```

> The `" _transaction"` is the "`TRANSACTION[] calldata"`  structure defined in the rationales.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `_transaction` is the `TRANSACTION[] calldata`  structure defined in the rationale.
```

@dev It MUST be issued by single entity  (for instance role based ownable contract that has integration with the liquidity pool of the deposited collateral by _to address).

e.g.

```
issueBond(0x2d03B6C79B75eE7aB35298878D05fe36DC1fE8Ef, [{ 0, 5, 1000}]);
```

> This example shows the issuing to wallet address 0x2d03B6C79B75eE7aB35298878D05fe36DC1fE8Ef,quantity of 1000 bonds of type classId 0 and nonceId 5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
issues `1000` bonds with a class of `0` to `0x2d03B6C79B75eE7aB35298878D05fe36DC1fE8Ef` with a nonce of `5`.
```

**Redeem**

`redeem(address _from, TRANSACTION[] calldata _transaction)` redemption of bond from an address.

The calling of this function needs to be restricted to bond issuer contract.

> The `"_from"` is the address from which the bond will be redeemed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `_from` is the address from which the bond will be redeemed.
```

> The `" _transaction"` is the "`TRANSACTION[] calldata"`  structure defined in the rationale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ` _transaction` is the `TRANSACTION[] calldata`  structure defined in the rationale.
```

> @dev redeem function for given class and nonce category MUST BE  done only after certain conditions for maturity (can be end time , total active liquidity , etc). and it also needs to be called by only the controller contract (called as bank).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@dev redeem function for a given class and nonce category MUST BE  done only after certain conditions for maturity (can be end time, total active liquidity, etc). and it also needs to be called by only the controller contract (called as a bank).
```

## Backwards Compatibility

ERC-3475 contract is  compatible with contracts that  inherit  ERC-3475 interface .Its valid for both the issuer and receiver of the bonds , the client EOA needs the IERC3475 interface.

However any existing ERC-20 token contract can issue their ERC-3475 bond, by delegating the  the minting role to a bank : orchestrator contract with ERC-3475 interface built in. The implementation of This can be found in our reference implementation.

> To ensure the reading of transactions, `"Issued"` ,`"Redeemed"` ,`"Burned"` ,`"Transfer"`, Events cited above MUST be emitted when such transaction is passed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Shouldn't be in backwards compatibility (except that Transfer may be backwards incompatible)

Author: could you elaborate more on that please ? sorry i am not able to see the rendering of the changes that you are mentioning in the IDE / github integration.

***Note that the ERC 3475 interface is also compatible with ERC-20 and [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) interface .*** But the creation of a separated bank contract is recommended for reading and future upgrade needs .

> The issuing of ERC-3475 bonds is not limited to ERC-20 token. Standard like ERC-721 nonfungible token can also issue their bond with the help of ERC-3475 interface. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Any ERC3475 bond or any hybrid of ERC-20 and ERC-721 contract can be used as the collateral for  an given ERC-3475 bond. This allows the market to create bond represent no longer a single type of ERC-20 token. Bond can now represent a collection of collaterals in ERC-20 token, ERC-721 nonfungible token and ERC-3475 Multiple callable bonds...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Acceptable collateral can be in the form of [EIP-20](./eip-20.md) tokens, [EIP-721](./eip-721.md) tokens, or other bonds.
```

Would also recommend including EIP-1155 in this list. Not sure if this is meant to be in the backwards compatibility section though.

## Reference Implementation

[ERC-3475 Reference Interface file](../assets/eip-3475/ERC3475.sol)

> 
> WIP: [ERC3475 reference implementation]().

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 
> **This demonstration show only a simple application of ERC-3475 Multiple Callable Bonds Standard. Developers can build much sophisticated logic with this interface. No function used in the example serves as a guide-line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> There are no known security considerations for this EIP. More security considerations will be added after the authoring/feedback process of this EIP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are no known security considerations for this EIP.
```
